# Random ideas

- Humans as the jack-of-all-trades species is boring. Make them the species of seafarers and merchants?
- Main theme of the world is chaos. No multi-millenia old empires, but many small and young kingdoms and city states constantly going through upheval, no single regime lasts for more than 5-6 generations, depending on the ruling species. 
- The pantheon goes through similar shifts, though at the longest interval of all, as gods kill each other, or mortals ascend to godhood. Many mortal civilizations that rise and fall are often due to, whether the mortals know this or not, the gods using them as pawns and proxy wars in the eternal cold war for power between the gods.
  - Relatedly, different mortal societies recognize the godhood of various gods or not similar to how nations are recognized in the real world. Some only recognize one, some all, some all but a specific few. Most of the kingdoms recognize all the gods, using a scholarly definition of godhood rather than a faith based one.
- Many of the gods are so immensely powerful that they could rule or destroy the world single handedly, but are prevented from doing so by the fact that attempting to would open them up to attacks from the rest of the pantheon.
- Some gods wander the mortal plane, some the elemental ones, some are powerful enough to carve out new, albeit smaller, planes for themselves and their minions
- Keep magic mechanically the same, but lorewise it is a lot more fey-like and unknown. Pretty much any magic user that gets reasonably powerful either ends up dead before their time, serving a god, leaving the mortal plane, or becoming a god themselves. Because of this, the few people that have knowledge on how magic works keep that secret closesly guarded, rarely writing books or taking apprentices.
  - Let every PC get one additional cantrip because of this? 
- This world has seen many adventurers, some of whose legacy can still be felt. Adventurers are usually called heroes (or would-be heroes for lower level characters), which takes on the meaning of "larger than life," someone who seems to have strange and unlikely experiences more than usual, and not necessarily a virtuous one. Heroes in this world are a bit of ta'veren, fate seems to twist the odds in the areas around them causing unlikely occurrences to suddenly become very likely. Some people try to prove themselves worthy of fate, and others try to find heroes and use them for their gain, though fate has a way of striking back at those who try such things.
- This world's Kenku have a slightly different backstory than the official version: an ancient kenku kingdom plotted to kill and overthrow their patron god. They succeeded, but with its last breath the god denied the kenku king's ascension, and cursed the entire species for their crime
- One of the major relatively recent events: war between two large kingdoms, one of whom was patronized by the then current god of war. Their opponent dragged the god into the mortal plane in an attempt to kill it and neutralize their advantage, which ended up destroying the god and both civilizations. The battlefield where the god was dragged to was wiped clean of life and the ground was split, creating a huge network of canyons and sheer cliffs known as the shattered god's tomb. Many heroes attempt to explore the beds of these canyons, searching for the weapons and armor of many legendary heroes from both sides, though not all survive to climb their way out. Explorers get lost, die of hunger, or die to the strange creatures that have made the canyons their home. Legend has it that the shattered god itself is still down there somewhere. Some of those who have explored the canyons and lived to escape say that you can hear a quiet and slow, yet powerful heartbeat throughout the canyons.
  - Draw on both the crippled god and the shattered plains for this? Maybe also draw on the ruined Moon's Spawn from Orb, Sceptre Throne: promise of great treasures, but some organization has a tight control on the entrance and exits, demanding exorbitant payments to let people back up.



- The Shattered God's Tomb doesn't simply feel like a different world, it is one. The energy released at Immog's death ripped a hole in the fabric of reality, resulting in the Tomb, not the cracking of the earth
  - Did this bring part of another world here, or is the Tomb another plan that has become embedded in the mortal one?
  - One of the scholars in the tomb noticed that in all the stories of the first people to explore the tomb, the only ones who survived to return originally entered from the west, where Hope's Rock is now. They theorize that the western edge is where the two planes meet, and anyone else who entered the Tomb actually fell into the void, not the plan that is the Tomb. The Hope itself, an anomaly as the only piece of vidrite above ground level, could be the anchor connecting the two plains.
- When the players inevitably find Immog's heart, they find it not just lying in a cave, but in an ornate tomb with non-Immogian symbols. Achiel, god of tragedy, was the mastermind whispering in ears that caused the shattering, and currently has pawns trying to turn the Tomb into a new tragedy. He, alone in realizing that Immog yet lived after the shattering, intentionally kept him alive to cause further tragedy, and is also aware of Ebor's masquerade in the tomb. Achiel both kept Immog alive, and started the rumours of his survival hoping to entice another god to the scene out of greed for power, and hoping to manipulate that god to cause another tragedy
- Achiel, god of tragedy, delights in the pain and death of others, but not simply in creating pain. To him, most enjoyable is causing the type of pain he calls tragedy; physical and emotional pain that results from the mistakes made by the sufferers themselves, not simply blowing up a city and watching people died. Worshipped and not considered wholly evil my mortals simply because they do not understand the scope and patience of his gambits. Achiel delights in engineering extremely convoluted tragedy, and is willing to wait centuries to see his plans pay off.