# Cultures & nations

## General notes
- For the most bit most nations tend to have a mix of many or all species. There are still a number that are single-species nations, but because of how old the world is and how much the gods have fucked with things you tend to see single-species wards or villages, in a greater multi-species city or country. That's not to say that different species always get along well in the multi-species areas.
- Many small city states or free duchies, few kingdoms or empires. Those tend not to last long, fracturing from internal politics, dynastic shifts, rebellions, getting conquered by other kingdoms/empires, or the meddling of a god(s).
- While regimes rise and fall frequently, overall culture is much longer lasting.
- Pretty much every city is built on the ruins of at least one older one

## Specific states
- The Divine Kingdom of Kithcaryn (KITH-carn)
	- Kingdom ruled by the God-King of Kithcaryn. One of the largest and oldest currently-standing kingdoms, around 400 years old. A haven for people of all species and creeds. Worship of other gods is allowed, though the churches to other gods tend to be fewer and smaller than in other lands. Worship of the more evil leaning gods is strictly allowed, but heavily frowned upon by most of the society, and rather rare. Has frequent and large festivals all throughout the country, and values kindness, generosity and art. Located in an area of plains, prairies and forests all abounding with life, by far the most bountiful land on the continent. Little desire to expand their borders or value in martial prowess, but is keen to spread their philosophy and worship of the God-King to other lands. Strong relations with the Wild Kingdom, as there is a mutual philosophy of generosity and helping one's peers, though the civilization vs. nature bit prevents anything more than strong ties. Many travellers to the kingdom and outsiders view the citizens of Kithcaryn as naive and coddled. The kingdom's borders are mostly open, due to their belief that all should aid and welcome each, but this can cause some strife as outsiders maintain their harsher ways of life within the kingdom.
- The free city of Liria (LEER-ee-uh)
	- City state ruled by a cabal of wizards/sorcerors. Opposed to warlocks, druids, clerics and most gods, as they do not wish to invite meddling by outside magical forces. The only magic allowed is innate or self-learned magic. Forms of magic allowed also include bards, rangers, rogues and monks. The only gods allowed to be worshipped are those whom the cabal approves of - usually those gods with whom the leaders have spoken to and written up an explicit treaty, detailing what can be preached and what rites and magic can be invoked in the city. The leaders keep the true extent of their power as hidden as possible, but from what is known they could easily frustrate the schemes of gods, if not directly compete with some.
- The Federation of Caesal (KAY-sahl)
	- In contrast to Liria, free duchy founded by a mage-killer hero (Lilnia "Blink" Chaemenor, female half-elf) that is opposed to magic, including most gods. They believe magic and the gods is what has held the mortal species back from true greatness, and is the cause of the fall of civilizations, and their knowledge with them. Oligarchy controlled by prominent scholars, and merchants, no nobility or aristocrats. Highly value philosophy, the sciences, engineering and physical prowess. Magic is allowed so long as it is in the pursuit of furthering the understanding of the world, not simply power. Caesal views magic much like fire: extremely dangerous, volatile, and likely to cause destruction if left unchecked, but useful and worth the risk if controlled and used only with sufficient expertise. Licenses to practice magic and alchemy can be acquired through some difficulty. Clerics and warlocks can still acquire these licenses as the Caesalans are not opposed to leveraging gifts of power granted from outside sources, though some internal factions question the wisdom of this. Has an elite force of mage-killers colloquially known as Blinkers, named after the founder's nickname of Blink. Lilnia got this nickname due to her extreme speed, use of stealth, and how the magical aura of her targets would simply blink out of existence
- The Wild Kingdom
	- An alliance of tribes of many species who value nature and reject large civilization, industry and agriculture. Comprised of humans, halflings, wood-elves, goliaths,bugbears, orcs, kobolds and various other naturalistic sentient species. The former 3 species tend to be the ambassadors to outside governments, being the least bestial and most knowledgeable with the ways of organized civilization. A high king is elected by the leaders of each of the species majorly represented in the kingdom. While many citizens of the wild are eat meat, killing other creatures is frowned upon, and the kingdom is a haven for many monsters, so long as they do not harm any other sentient being.
- The Lamorian Dynasty
	- One of the few other large kingdoms that exists
- A fantasy kingdom name generator gave me "The Dominion of Onion". Work with that?

## Names to use
- Crophate
- Lamor