# Loroghan

Goliath middle names, traditionally, are earned in early adulthood or late adolescence when the Goliath in question does something so notable as to define them to the rest of their society. Loroghan Longstriker Lakumiaga earned his when he was ten years old. Even in traditionally highly-competitive Goliath life this was early, and marked Loroghan (Lo-RO-hahn) as a Goliath to watch. With a middle name like Longstriker, most folks who know Goliath culture would assume that he made a remarkable long-distance shot with a bow and arrow, or three an axe a stunning distance, or something like that. 

But, no. Goliath culture idolizes all forms of competition, even in the political arena or the court of public opinion, and Loroghan's triumph came when, an upstart 10 year old with a firm (some might say calcified) moral code, he set himself against a law enacted by Thalok Climber Ogolalathi, who made his first entry into politics at the age of 12. By the the time of his clash with Loroghan, was the youngest province administrator in Wild Kingdom history at 20, a feat which earned him his middle name. Thalok had seen what he called "inefficiencies" in society and instituted a sweeping set of laws to try and make his part of the Wild Kingdom less wild.
To Loroghan the precocious 10 year old, this smacked of bullying and just would not do. Loroghan publicly went on a hunger strike, standing like a statue in the middle of his town, silently protesting the new laws and not eating for an entire month. His long strike (so long that no one knows how he survived it) made an instant celebrity of him, and Thalok had to rescind the laws, giving Loroghan a remarkable triumph, marking him in the eyes of all as a Goliath to watch.

(A further note: given that Loroghan went a month without eating at such a critical development period in a Goliath's life, it's extra-remarkable that he achieved the stature and strength he did, which is exceptional even for a Goliath. One wonders how big he'd be if he hadn't gone on his famous long strike.)