# The Shattered God's Tomb

## General notes
- One of the major relatively recent events: war between two large kingdoms, one of whom was patronized by the then current god of war. Their opponent dragged the god into the mortal plane in an attempt to kill it and neutralize their advantage, which ended up destroying the god and both civilizations. The battlefield where the god was dragged to was wiped clean of life and the ground was split, creating a huge network of canyons and sheer cliffs known as the shattered god's tomb. Many heroes attempt to explore the beds of these canyons, searching for the weapons and armor of many legendary heroes from both sides, though not all survive to climb their way out. Explorers get lost, die of hunger, or die to the strange creatures that have made the canyons their home. Legend has it that the shattered god itself is still down there somewhere. Some of those who have explored the canyons and lived to escape say that you can hear a quiet and slow, yet powerful heartbeat throughout the canyons.
  - Draw on both the crippled god and the shattered plains for this? Maybe also draw on the ruined Moon's Spawn from Orb, Sceptre Throne: promise of great treasures, but some organization has a tight control on the entrance and exits, demanding exorbitant payments to let people back up
- Many tunnels and caves in the rock, not exposed to the sky. 
  - These passages occasionally seem to shift and move, frustrating any attempts to map them.
- The walls of the canyon are a mix of igneous and metamorphic rock, as the creation of the tomb was from the huge amounts of fire and pressure the killing of the god wrought. The walls, at least near the top, are covered by an almost glass-like substance (some say it's the dried blood of the god). The glass stuff reflects some light down into the canyons, so it has some light during most of the day.
  - lots of basalt, slate, obsidian and marble
  - You can occasionally see weapons and armor embedded in the glass substance
- The compositions of the canyons resemble that of a cooled volcanic fissure. See Crack in the Ground Oregon for an example
- Canyons range from 700-1500 metres deep, and usually 50-100 metres wide. The cliffs are almost always sheer
- The spilled blood and power of a war god and two armies has left the place permeated by powerful magic. Many strange plants grow easily allowing for a lot of food without much sunlight (all that ash helps as a fertilizer), but many monsters abound, and almost seem to spring up from nowhere. 
- None of the corpses from the battle have ever been found though the weapons and armor have been. They likely all burnt to ash, but there could be another reason
- The base of the canyons are known as the Catacombs
- The Tomb (as it's called in short form) only recently (~80-100 years ago) cooled enough to be inhabitable/explorable, as the death of a red dragon, plus the breaking of so much earth, left a lot of heat in the area. There are still many magma pools and hot springs in the Tomb.
- Food and water are plentiful in the Catacombs, the energy of the place lets plants grow unnaturally quickly and there are plenty of monsters to be hunted, as is shelter as there are many caves. The one downside is that mold and rot also grow quickly, meaning food pretty much has to be eaten fresh or requires a lot of preservatives. Outside goods (metal, wood, luxuries like beds) are exorbitantly expensive, and rain, though thankfully rare, causes at least a couple drownings every time it happens due to the confined nature of the place. The slums are on the base of the canyon floor, while anyone with money or power usually takes caves or builds stone houses a little bit up the walls.
	- Despite the huge sums required to leave the Catacombs, many don't care to worry about that, as life in the Catacombs is often easier than wherever they came from. Plants grow so quickly that wheat is practically a weed, so people don't really go hungry. A good fraction of people who come to the Catacombs regret their effective imprisonment at the hands of the Merchants of Adventure, as few end up able to afford it, but there's a common sentiment of not wanting to leave even if it were free. Most of the people who end up in a place like this don't have attachments to the outside world. Dwarves in particular think the place a near paradise.
- Though many people find the Catacombs to be eerie and claustrophobic, many others find the place immensely beautiful between the unique plant and animal life, and the glass-like walls of the canyons. Many artists and poets flock to the place for inspiration, though they're the ones that tend to die most frequently. There are even several chefs who have come to experiment with the unique plant and animal life.

## Factions present
- The Cult of the Shattered god
	- Founded by explorers in the Catacombs. They worship the fallen god of war, Immog. They believe that the thumping sound in the Catacombs is the still-beating heart of Immog. They aim to find their god's remains and resurrect her, so that she might re-take her place in the pantheon and cleanse the world of lesser gods. Do not take kindly to open worship of other gods, and are particularly not fond of the Priests of Ebor.
- The Merchants of Adventure
	- The organization made up of Caesalan merchants and engineers that built the town and the lift, and controls entry and exit to the Catacombs. Has some serious muscle, but mostly only motivated by greed. Demands every person that enters the Catacombs via their lift pay a one-time exorbitant fee (10000 gold?) towards the upkeep of the lift, which they only tell people about once they reach the canyon floor. Many people are unable to fully pay off this debt and are not allowed to take the lift up again until they do. The Merchants are almost universally hated, but many grudgingly admit that the lift is a marvel of engineering, and the Catacombs would fall to chaos if it ever were to break. Widely viewed as greedy bureaucrats, but has little power over those who have paid their debts. They are famously crafty, but will stick to their word. Anyone who has paid their one-time debt is free to come and go as they'd like, and despite the steep price many do pay it off, finding gems or magic items.
- The Priests of Ebor
	- Group of priests of the god of peace. Led by Bishop Ormen, they seek to find any truth to the rumors that Immog yet lives, and destroy him utterly if they can. They do not take kindly to the shattered cult.
- The Lirian Embassy
	- Agents of the Free City of Liria, searching the Catacombs for any and all enchanted objects, especially those extremely powerful artifacts they can learn new magic from. Some claim they are especially interested in the magical weapons, hoping to build up an arsenal to increase Liria's domain.
- The Wild Embassy
	- Not actually an official delegation, but a collection of inhabitants from the Wild Kingdom that seek to find rare creatures in the Tomb. Many people say that never before seen monsters are in the Tomb, the inhabitants of the wild hope to find members of species once thought extinct.
- The Artist's guild
	- A loose group of various artists, poets, musicians and a smattering of scholars and mages. More of a club of similar-ish minded people than a proper faction, they tend to meet in a corner of the Giant's Burrow.

## Locations & Landmarks
- Hope's Rock
	- The town surrounding the lift. Separated into the Upper Rock at the top of the lift, and the Lower Rock at its base. Named after the huge glass boulder, of the same material of the walls of the cliffs, next to which resides the lift. The Upper Rock is far smaller, mostly only for unloading supplies to be sent to the Lower Rock. The lower rock is far larger and centered around the meeting of 3 canyons, resulting in three major (and only) streets to the lower town. 
	- The Upper Rock is solely populated by the Merchants of Adventure in a Potemkin village type deal, to lure in adventurers to head to the Lower Rock at the bottom of the catacombs, where they get effectively trapped by the lift debt.
- The Lower Rock
	- The town at the base of the lift. Comprised of a central square and three major walled off streets, defined by the natural floor of the canyon. Each street is named after the monster that most plagued the early denizens of the Lower Rock when trying to wall off that passageway. The street that heads north of the square is named Beholder's boulevard, the street veering southeast is Demon's lane, and the southbound street is Dragon's gulch.
- The Hope
	- The outcrop of vidrite nearly 50 feet tall around which the town of Hope's Rock was built and named. Shaped like a smaller version of Pride Rock from the Lion King, at its peak appears to be a blue banner, encased in vidrite but still mostly visible through the crystal. Whatever symbol might have been present on the banner cannot be seen. Its unknown what material the banner is made of, as any flammable materials were reduced to ash during the shattering.
	- The Hope is just barely at a gentle enough slope to climb. There is a wooden sign next to the rock that reads "Warning: climb at your own risk", with a smaller sign on the same post beneath it that reads "By climbing this rock (hereafter referred to as 'the Rock') you (hereafter referred to as 'the Climber') enter into an agreement with The Merchants of Adventure Incorporated (herafter referred to as 'the Company'). In climbing the Rock the Climber certifies that they are doing so of their own volition, and are not compelled to do so by any means or by any parties, including the Company. The Climber waives all liability towards the Company for any injury, maiming, loss of life, sense of vertigo, newfound fear of heights, loss of sanity, sunburn, dissatisfaction, boredom or sundry feelings of malcontent the climber might sustain in the act of climbing the Rock or in the vicinity of the Rock. The Climber agrees to assume all liability in the event of the occurrence of one or more of the eventualities listed above, and acknowledges they cannot receive any recompense, monetary or otherwise, from the Company in the event of one of the listed eventualities. The full twenty-three (23) page text of this waiver can be viewed by appointment with 8 weeks notice at the offices of Barristers Kutsk & Ironhelm, 518 Broken Tower Walk, The City of Caesal, The Federation of Caesal."
- The Giant's Burrow
	- Pub just off the central square of the Lower Rock. Built out of a natural cave off a ~5 foot high archway. Run by Belzin, a halfling, who named it since it's a giant archway for her, but not for others, and pubs ought to have fun names, no? The Giant's Burrow welcomes all denizens of the Lower Rock, and has the cheapest, and lowest quality, food & alcohol
- The Margrave
	- Higher class lounge and bar in the middle of Beholder's Boulevard. By far the most opulent and overpriced inn in the Lower rock, primarily frequented by nobles, merchants, richer members of the Artist's Guild, and ranking members of various nations' delegations. Openly mocked by most other denizens of the Lower Rock as uptight
- The Shaggy Alligator
	- Middling pub on Demon's Lane, almost solely frequented by the successful adventurers who are too rough and tumble for the Margrave, but can afford better than the Giant's Burrow. Only allows people who have been in the town for more than a week to enter, which is quite effective at keeping the crowds small. Named after its owner's first attempt at making beer with wheat grown in the Catacombs got contaminated and made him hallucinate that a furred alligator was attacking the pub (it was actually the cook clocking out for the night). Since then the name stuck, as did the "Shaggy Special", an ale with a rotating recipe brewed to be as strong and noxious as possible. Each batch is unique, and Lazlow never runs out of ideas, particularly since Bari started contirbuting
- The General Store
	- Warehouse on Beholder's Boulevard. The only 'general store' in the town, the point of sale for all outside goods. Many goods. Many other establishments or groups in town (inns, the farmers, the miners, the merchants of adventure) get first dibs on new supplies before they ever get to general sale.
    	- Includes the main general store run by Todri, the smithy run by Alston, and the magic item shop run by Alustine
    	- Alustine has stock of all common items, and can custom-make uncommon ones <= 500gp, though they take time (5-15 days, DM's discretion)
- The Town Square
	- The intersection of the three canyons that make up the Lower Rock. Calling it a square isn't quite accurate, it's just the only relatively open area in the town. The waystation at the base of the Grand Lift is centered on its west wall, and the square is populated with a few benches where denizens occasionally sit. The square has not been terraformed, its shape is entirely natural, and the ground is the usual mix of open rock and dirt of the rest of the canyons.
	- In the dead centre of the square is a huge marble monument depicting many lifesize people of various species. They are all highly detailed, and heavily armed and armored, facing outward in a circle grinning in defiance at some unseen enemy.
		- A plaque on the west side of the monument reads: "We honour those beings who gave their lives to build and defend this town. When we leave this place laden with riches, so too shall we carry their stories. They shall be the heaviest burdens of all, weighing down our every step."

## Miscellaneous 
- Vidrite
	- The name for the glass- or quartz-like substance that coats the walls of the canyons. Extremely hard and translucent, few have managed to chip a piece off to study it, and those who have closely guard their samples and findings. Almost always extremely smooth, looking like if glass had the gentle curves of a calm sea. Very difficult to climb, as it's nearly impossible to get any purchase. Claimed by some to be the ichor of Immog himself. On the other hand, many scholars presume it to be ordinary stone created by the unique conditions surrounding Immog's shattering, though the lack of any obvious crystalline structure to it and the curved surfaces cause problems with this theory.
