# Valarel

https://www.dndbeyond.com/characters/16638240/okbONV

Val's Sang (as in 'blood' in French, their family, the tribe they lived with) was small and kind and loving.  The culture that she is from lives in these small Sangs, away from each other for much of the year, coming together for holidays and celebrations.  They live up in the trees, cultivating their own arborial agriculture up there, building twisted homes that wind among the branches, in harmony with the natural world.

Val grew up with their mother, Caccaelaa, unclear who their father was; someone from another Sang who their mother connected with during some celebration or another.  It's not uncommon among the wood elves there to only know one parent or another; there are magics and rituals and scrying that can tell you who your other parent is, but Val never felt the need.  They had their mother, and parents aplenty among the Sang.  They all looked out for one another.

Caccaelaa is a talented bowswoman, and a cleric of Ilin; she is not the leader of the Sang but one of the wisest there, someone the others come to for advice or help.  She taught Val how to string a bow and game with dice; taught her to accept the winds of fate and change, and how to flow through life like a stream winds the wood.  If one bends with every obstacle, one moves past them with ease and grace.

Perhaps this wisdom, and the guidance of Ilin, is why unlike most of their peers Val liked to roam and to run.  Most of the elves of the Sang stay within the forests and within the territory of their Sang, but once they were ready to be out on their own, older than twenty or so, Val started to ramble.  First making their home among other Sangs in the woods, then travelling to other valleys and other woods nearby, then going to the more industrial towns and cities in the Vrokricurion Dukedom.
In the woods, it was easy to make your way, to find food and places to sleep and shelter.  In the cities it was harder, but Val soon found their way to adventuring; the little notices about bandits that needed capturing and wolves that needed slaying quickly became their bread and butter.  (Not that they eat bread or butter often; preparing food is a wild and mysterious thing for Val.  Their people mostly eat raw food, things plucked fresh from the trees.  The other world's obsessions with stew and bread and cheese are a baffling thing to them, and to be honest they truly love watching people eat, and gnawing on fresh leaves and bark in front of others to watch them gawk.)

Being a stranger in a strange land also sometimes pays dividends; Val's dined at castles and slept in the beds of nobility (in all those senses of the word) just by being strange and mysterious and a little bit pretty.  They love to laugh, to tell stories, to be the life of the party, and then to slip away, all debts paid and all strings cut, to go somewhere new.  They have a story for every occasion, and it'd be easy to mistake them for a bard if you didn't know better.

Val does have a couple of acquantances going way back, other ramblers that they know and keep running into.  Kiccia, a ranger from another Sang back home, is the only other person that Val knows of that left the home forest.  It's something about the god that Kiccia believes in, and something about a prophecy maybe?  Val does not remember too much specifically about it, but running into Kiccia is possibly the only thing that makes Val homesick, and they have returned to the forest from time to time.

There's also Lundila Winddigger, a dwarf merchant who's just about always willing to trade in whatever Val's come into possession of.  Val thinks Lundila is stodgy and peculiar, and Lundila thinks Val's a freewheeling hippy, but they'll always come to an agreement in the end.